README.md, before:

gradle-credentials-plugin
=========================

# Overview

[Gradle](http://www.gradle.org) plugin that allows to store and access encrypted 
credentials using password-based encryption (PBE).

The credentials plugin is hosted at [Bintray's JCenter](https://bintray.com/etienne/gradle-plugins/gradle-credentials-plugin).

# Goals

One typical use case of the 'gradle.properties' file in the Gradle user home directory is 
to store credentials, and to reference them from Gradle builds as project properties. This 
is a very convenient functionality at the cost that, by default, these properties are stored
in plain text. It happens quickly that such credentials are exposed accidentally while giving 
a Gradle presentation or while pair-programming with a colleague.  

The credentials plugin provides a parallel functionality to the 'gradle.properties' file to 
store and access credentials in an encrypted format through a 'gradle.encrypted.properties' 
files, thereby avoiding that credentials are ever stored in plain text.
 
# Functionality

The following functionality is provided by the credentials plugin:
 
 * Store encrypted credentials
 * Delete encrypted credentials
 * Access encrypted credentials from a Gradle build
 
# Design

All access and storage of credentials goes through password-based encryption. The passphrase
can either be specified as a project property from the command line, or a default passphrase 
is used. The JDK encryption algorithm applied is _AES_ using a key that is generated using 
_PBKDF2WithHmacSHA1_ from an 8-byte salt, an iteration count of 65536, and a key length of 
128 (longer keys require local installation of the JRE Security Extension).

Access to the stored credentials from within a Gradle build happens through the 
`credentials` project property. All read and write operations to the credentials container
apply the decryption and encryption on the fly. The credentials container never holds any 
credentials in their decrypted form.
 
Please note that the author of this plugin is by far not a security expert. It is also not
the primary goal of this plugin to provide high-security encryption, but rather to provide
a convenient way to avoid having to store credentials in plain text.

# Configuration

## Apply credentials plugin

Apply the `nu.studer.credentials` plugin to your Gradle plugin project.

### Gradle 1.x and 2.0

```groovy
buildscript {
    repositories {
        jcenter()
    }
    dependencies {
        classpath 'nu.studer:gradle-credentials-plugin:1.0.0'
    }
}

apply plugin: 'nu.studer.credentials'
```

### Gradle 2.1 and higher

```groovy
plugins {
  id 'nu.studer.credentials' version '1.0.0'
}
```

Please refer to the [Gradle DSL PluginDependenciesSpec](http://www.gradle.org/docs/current/dsl/org.gradle.plugin.use.PluginDependenciesSpec.html) to 
understand the behavior and limitations when using the new syntax to declare plugin dependencies.

## Invoke credentials tasks

### Store encrypted credentials
 
You can store new credentials or update existing credentials through the `addCredentials` task. Pass along
the credentials key and value through the `credentialsKey` and `credentialsValue` project properties. The 
credentials are stored in the _GRADLE_USER_HOME/gradle.encrypted.properties_.

    gradle addCredentials -PcredentialsKey=someKey -PcredentialsValue=someValue
    
Optionally, pass along a custom passphrase through the `credentialsPassphrase` project property. The 
credentials are stored in the passphrase-specific _GRADLE_USER_HOME/gradle.MD5HASH.encrypted.properties_ where the 
_MD5HASH_ is calculated from the specified passphrase.

    gradle addCredentials -PcredentialsKey=someKey -PcredentialsValue=someValue -PcredentialsPassphrase=mySecretPassPhrase

### Remove encrypted credentials

You can remove existing credentials through the `removeCredentials` task. Pass along
the credentials key through the `credentialsKey` project property. The credentials are removed from the 
_GRADLE_USER_HOME/gradle.encrypted.properties_.

    gradle removeCredentials -PcredentialsKey=someKey
    
Optionally, pass along a custom passphrase through the `credentialsPassphrase` project property. The 
credentials are removed from the passphrase-specific _GRADLE_USER_HOME/gradle.MD5HASH.encrypted.properties_ where the 
_MD5HASH_ is calculated from the specified passphrase.

    gradle removeCredentials -PcredentialsKey=someKey -PcredentialsPassphrase=mySecretPassPhrase

## Access credentials in build

### Get credentials from within a build

Get the desired credentials from the `credentials` container, available on the project instance. The 
credentials are decrypted as they are accessed.

```groovy
String accountPassword = credentials.someAccountName
```

If no explicit passphrase is passed when starting the build, the `credentials` container is initialized 
with all credentials persisted in the _GRADLE_USER_HOME/gradle.encrypted.properties_.
 
If a custom passphrase is passed through the `credentialsPassphrase` project property when starting the build,
the `credentials` container is initialized with all credentials persisted in the passphrase-specific 
_GRADLE_USER_HOME/gradle.MD5HASH.encrypted.properties_ where the _MD5HASH_ is calculated from the 
specified passphrase.

### Add credentials ad-hoc from within a build

Set the desired credentials on the `credentials` container, available on the project instance. The 
credentials are encrypted as they are assigned.

```groovy
credentials.someAccountName = 'verySecret'
```

Credentials added ad-hoc during the build are not persisted on the file system.

# Feedback and Contributions

Both feedback and contributions are very welcome.

# Acknowledgements

None, yet.

# License

This plugin is available under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).

(c) by Etienne Studer

Commit message:

Make the build of the credentials plugin use itself

README.md, after:

gradle-credentials-plugin
=========================

# Overview

[Gradle](http://www.gradle.org) plugin that allows to store and access encrypted 
credentials using password-based encryption (PBE).

The credentials plugin is hosted at [Bintray's JCenter](https://bintray.com/etienne/gradle-plugins/gradle-credentials-plugin).

# Goals

One typical use case of the 'gradle.properties' file in the Gradle user home directory is 
to store credentials, and to reference them from Gradle builds as project properties. This 
is a very convenient functionality at the cost that, by default, these properties are stored
in plain text. It happens quickly that such credentials are exposed accidentally while giving 
a Gradle presentation or while pair-programming with a colleague.  

The credentials plugin provides a parallel functionality to the 'gradle.properties' file to 
store and access credentials in an encrypted format through a 'gradle.encrypted.properties' 
files, thereby avoiding that credentials are ever stored in plain text.
 
# Functionality

The following functionality is provided by the credentials plugin:
 
 * Store encrypted credentials
 * Delete encrypted credentials
 * Access encrypted credentials from a Gradle build
 
# Design

All access and storage of credentials goes through password-based encryption. The passphrase
can either be specified as a project property from the command line, or a default passphrase 
is used. The JDK encryption algorithm applied is _AES_ using a key that is generated using 
_PBKDF2WithHmacSHA1_ from an 8-byte salt, an iteration count of 65536, and a key length of 
128 (longer keys require local installation of the JRE Security Extension).

Access to the stored credentials from within a Gradle build happens through the 
`credentials` project property. All read and write operations to the credentials container
apply the decryption and encryption on the fly. The credentials container never holds any 
credentials in their decrypted form.
 
Please note that the author of this plugin is by far not a security expert. It is also not
the primary goal of this plugin to provide high-security encryption, but rather to provide
a convenient way to avoid having to store credentials in plain text.

# Configuration

## Apply credentials plugin

Apply the `nu.studer.credentials` plugin to your Gradle plugin project.

### Gradle 1.x and 2.0

```groovy
buildscript {
    repositories {
        jcenter()
    }
    dependencies {
        classpath 'nu.studer:gradle-credentials-plugin:1.0.0'
    }
}

apply plugin: 'nu.studer.credentials'
```

### Gradle 2.1 and higher

```groovy
plugins {
  id 'nu.studer.credentials' version '1.0.0'
}
```

Please refer to the [Gradle DSL PluginDependenciesSpec](http://www.gradle.org/docs/current/dsl/org.gradle.plugin.use.PluginDependenciesSpec.html) to 
understand the behavior and limitations when using the new syntax to declare plugin dependencies.

## Invoke credentials tasks

### Store encrypted credentials
 
You can store new credentials or update existing credentials through the `addCredentials` task. Pass along
the credentials key and value through the `credentialsKey` and `credentialsValue` project properties. The 
credentials are stored in the _GRADLE_USER_HOME/gradle.encrypted.properties_.

    gradle addCredentials -PcredentialsKey=someKey -PcredentialsValue=someValue
    
Optionally, pass along a custom passphrase through the `credentialsPassphrase` project property. The 
credentials are stored in the passphrase-specific _GRADLE_USER_HOME/gradle.MD5HASH.encrypted.properties_ where the 
_MD5HASH_ is calculated from the specified passphrase.

    gradle addCredentials -PcredentialsKey=someKey -PcredentialsValue=someValue -PcredentialsPassphrase=mySecretPassPhrase

### Remove encrypted credentials

You can remove existing credentials through the `removeCredentials` task. Pass along
the credentials key through the `credentialsKey` project property. The credentials are removed from the 
_GRADLE_USER_HOME/gradle.encrypted.properties_.

    gradle removeCredentials -PcredentialsKey=someKey
    
Optionally, pass along a custom passphrase through the `credentialsPassphrase` project property. The 
credentials are removed from the passphrase-specific _GRADLE_USER_HOME/gradle.MD5HASH.encrypted.properties_ where the 
_MD5HASH_ is calculated from the specified passphrase.

    gradle removeCredentials -PcredentialsKey=someKey -PcredentialsPassphrase=mySecretPassPhrase

## Access credentials in build

### Get credentials from within a build

Get the desired credentials from the `credentials` container, available on the project instance. The 
credentials are decrypted as they are accessed.

```groovy
String accountPassword = credentials.someAccountName
```

If no explicit passphrase is passed when starting the build, the `credentials` container is initialized 
with all credentials persisted in the _GRADLE_USER_HOME/gradle.encrypted.properties_.
 
If a custom passphrase is passed through the `credentialsPassphrase` project property when starting the build,
the `credentials` container is initialized with all credentials persisted in the passphrase-specific 
_GRADLE_USER_HOME/gradle.MD5HASH.encrypted.properties_ where the _MD5HASH_ is calculated from the 
specified passphrase.

### Add credentials ad-hoc from within a build

Set the desired credentials on the `credentials` container, available on the project instance. The 
credentials are encrypted as they are assigned.

```groovy
credentials.someAccountName = 'verySecret'
```

Credentials added ad-hoc during the build are not persisted on the file system.

# Example

The build script of the credentials plugin makes use of itself and serves as a real-world example. You 
can also find a self-contained example build script [here](example/build.gradle).

# Feedback and Contributions

Both feedback and contributions are very welcome.

# Acknowledgements

None, yet.

# License

This plugin is available under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).

(c) by Etienne Studer
